Facebook is a company that we all know as users, but it is also a company that we have
to understand as a company.
And that's why what we are going to do is share five ideas, five things you should know.
The first is that Facebook is one of the five largest companies in the world.
If we analyze the rankings for stock market capitalization in the world, the five largest
companies, although there is some volatility, are the five large technological companies
that are Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon and Facebook.
As you can see, Facebook is in that war.
Two, Facebook is one of the most profitable companies and the one that grows the most in
the world.
We have several companies that we all know based on two variables.
On the X axis we have annual growth by income.
And on the Y axis we have margins.
We have companies like Netflix or Amazon, which, as we see, grow a lot but with very
low margins and have very low or lost profits in some years.
And we have companies with slightly higher margins, such as Apple or Google.
But the winner of all is Facebook, which, as we see, is the one that grows the most and
is also the one with the highest margins.
And we are going to see it with data.
Facebook has an annual income last year of 40 billion dollars.
And this data is very interesting, but maybe more interesting is to see the annual trend.
And if we look at the graph, what we see is that a clear upward trend is seen, that is,
that growth prospects are still excellent.
As we said, it is one of the companies that grows the most in the world.
And if we are going to analyze the margins or profitability or profits, we have 16 billion
dollars in profit in 2017.
We can quickly do the analysis.
40 billion income, 16 billion profit, is a margin of 40%, which is a real
barbarity.
And by the way, 16 billion dollars is a lot or a little.
Because of course, when we talk about these magnitudes, it is difficult for us to situate ourselves.
And I'm going to compare it with two Spanish companies.
With Banco Santander, which has 8 in 2017 in millions of dollars, 8 billion dollars
in profit, half that of Facebook.
Or with Inditex, which is the largest textile group in the world, which has 3,800 million.
You should know that Facebook, not only Facebook, but it is a group that has had an ambitious policy
of inorganic growth acquisitions and that is formed today by more than 66 companies.
The best known acquisitions have been Instagram for a billion dollars, Oculus Rift, which
is the manufacturer of virtual reality glasses, and the most recent import has been the purchase
of WhatsApp for 19 billion dollars, 19 billion.
The most important thing you have to learn today is that Facebook is the second advertising platform
in the world, after Google.
And the first thing we are going to do is analyze a little bit how this market is.
If we analyze the market of online advertising platforms, Google and Facebook have
60%, it is a duopolio.
Google with a higher market share.
And if we analyze the total of the cake of the advertising market in the world, total I mean
that not only online but online and offline, Google and Facebook have 25%, Google 18%
and Facebook 7%.
Well, what we are going to do is analyze the Facebook model and we are going to identify
what are the keys that have led it to be the second platform in the world.
If we see the business model canvas, it will allow us to understand the advertising model well.
What we have is the users of the social network, we have 2,200 million on Facebook,
1,000 million on Instagram, although there is really a huge duplicity, and Facebook what
it brings them is, well, you already know, connecting with other people, interesting content, etc.
And this allows you to monetize it through the advertisers, which are the companies that
we hire campaigns on Facebook, which is what generates 95% of Facebook's income.
And what I want is now that we analyze what are the keys to all this, why Facebook,
what is different about Facebook from the others?
And we have identified mainly three keys.
One of them, which is very obvious, is the huge mass of users.
We are talking about thousands of millions of people and this, what is the advantage for
an advertiser?
Well, it's very easy, it's the reach you have.
You from your home, on your computer, you can reach, well, that, an audience, you can reach
everyone basically, because almost everyone has Facebook.
The second one is something you have to understand very well and surely you have heard it many
times, is that Facebook has a lot of information about us.
It is permanently obtaining data every time you browse on Facebook.
And all kinds of data, because you fill in your profile and you are permanently giving
to pages that you follow, etc.
Or, for example, when you use Facebook Login to log in to other applications, well,
that is generating a footprint every day.
What is this good for Facebook?
Well, it is worth it to put it in value with all the advertisers, because it is very good for advertisers
to be able to make very segmented campaigns and we can make segmented campaigns because
Facebook gets all that information.
You will really know it in detail, the Facebook Ads Manager, but it is huge the amount of
variables that you can use to segment and to address exactly your target audience.
And the third of the keys we have called Engagement, which is perhaps attention.
And this is a key very inherent to a social network.
A Facebook user or in general of any social network spends a lot of time on the social network.
Specifically on Facebook, the average is about 35 minutes a day and you connect
half nine times a day.
I think it is very representative of what I'm talking about.
You are generating a huge value to Facebook as a user because you spend a lot of time
consuming content from Facebook and that allows Facebook to offer a huge value to advertisers.
And why?
Well because the advertiser has the possibility of having a huge impact on the life of that
person of his target audience, because his target audience spends 35 minutes on average
on Facebook and connects nine times a day.
You have numerous ways to impact him systematically.
You can get into his life to explain it in a simple way.
This is a huge value for advertisers.
And these are the three keys that basically attract us to all companies, whether small,
large, medium and so it is very easy to understand why we all make huge investments
on Facebook.
And this is what has led Facebook to have those giant invoices that have those margins
exorbitant.
I also want you to understand that Facebook is an ultra scalable company.
Before we talked about very high margins, 40% of sales.
What is this due to?
Well, it is due to the scalability that we have talked about so much.
And I can give you the example of a company like us, like The Power MBA.
In The Power MBA, the monthly investment in Facebook is very high.
It is a very high amount.
However, we have not generated any additional cost to Facebook.
That is, all the money we invest monthly on Facebook is absolutely net.
The gross margin is 100%.
Because they do not have to dedicate additional resources, we only use technology.
When you reach a certain volume, in some cases they assign you an account manager.
But only for companies that invest a lot on Facebook.
Another fact that I think is quite representative of the scalability of Facebook is that, for example,
in a country like Spain, in a market of more than 45 million people, it has 40 employees.
That is, there are thousands and thousands and thousands of companies like us, larger, smaller,
that are spending a lot of money, but they only need 40 employees to manage it.
Why?
Because basically, technology, as we saw, is an ultra scalable resource.
And finally, I am going to share with you that in addition to a advertising platform,
Facebook is a platform for developers.
That is, it works the same as a platform that can be iOS or Android.
Facebook contributes a technology on which companies, which are the developers,
create their applications.
And Facebook allows it, it is like a distribution channel for those app manufacturers,
for developers.
Because Facebook allows you to reach millions of users.
It allows you to sell, it allows you to monetize.
And that generates an additional income flow to Facebook.
Because those applications, in many cases, are premium models,
in which every time payments occur within the application, Facebook commissions for it.
And it is possible that if you are not a Facebook user, you do not come to mind what I am talking about.
But for example, there was a game like Farville, which became very popular,
which is basically what I'm talking about.
People who play through Facebook to games that developers have developed.
So at some point those games, in many cases, are premium,
and when you are paying, Facebook is making money with each of those payments.